HIP 100: Deploy EU868 region plan to the majority of Africa (#789)
helium/HIP: 00XX-deploy-eu868-region-plan-to-the-majority-of-africa.md

* Author: [Adrian Clint](https://github.com/waveform06) and [Helium Foundation](https://github.com/dewi-alliance) 
* Start Date: 2023-09-22
* Category: Technical
* Original HIP PR: [#789](https://github.com/helium/HIP/pull/789)
* Tracking Issue:
* Vote Requirements: veIOT Holders

## Summary

This HIP recommends that the community provisionally sets the currently unspecified and EU433 countries in the Africa region to the EU868 frequency plan. This change would match guidance from local regulatory authorities like the Africa Telecoms Union (ATU) and local deployers. The LoRa Alliance does not currently specify regional parameters for all of these countries, or has EU433 as an only/primary frequency plan.

As a summary, this HIP proposes:

* All Africa region countries with an “Unknown” LoRaWAN regional frequency plan are set to EU868 per ETSI [EN300.220-2].
* All Africa region countries set to EU433 as the default LoRaWAN regional frequency parameter are set to EU868 on the Helium network.
* All Africa region countries with EU433 or an 800MHz based LoRaWAN regional frequency parameter are set to EU868 on the Helium network.

> * We communicate with all Telecoms Regulatory Authorities in these countries and confirm Helium provisionally complies with the EU868 regional parameter recommendation from the Africa Telecoms Union.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The network, through the Helium Foundation and other participants, communicate with Telecom Regulatory Authorities in these countries and confirm Helium provisionally complies with the EU868 regional parameter recommendation from the Africa Telecoms Union.
```

> * We present the approach to the LoRa Alliance Regulations and Regional Parameters Working Groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The network, through the Helium Foundation and other participants, present the approach to the LoRa Alliance Regulations and Regional Parameters Working Group.
```

The immediate objective is to promote EU868 as a provisional standard, enabling Helium deployers to roll out EU868 Hotspots across the African continent. By introducing this provisional amendment to the Helium network, there's an opportunity to influence changes in the LoRa Alliance's LoRaWAN Regional Parameters specifications.  Major African countries like South Africa, Nigeria, Egypt and Kenya already utilize EU868. However, several African countries have yet to establish regulations specific to LoRaWAN. The EU868 plan is gaining traction as a potential global standard for IoT devices, particularly in the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Region 1 (EMEA). The trigger countries for this HIP are Malawi, Liberia, The Democratic Republic of  Congo, The Republic of Congo, and Ghana which the Foundation are working with on the ground through the One Planet Education Network team to establish local LoRaWAN connectivity on EU868 in these countries.

> ![itu1 map](images/itu1.png)

Reviewer: recommend moving all of these images but we can do that in a separate PR
